All right for resistors in parallel It's a little bit more complicated than one in series but not too
bad.
So here's a case where I have two resistance are one and are two in parallel with each other.
They're in parallel because they're on different branches right different wires.
And the goal here is to replace both of them by one equivalent resistance so between points A and B
regardless of how many I would have I can replace that by one equivalent resistor.
I'm going to call that our equivalent.
And the reason you want to do that.
Well if you want to apply Ohm's law to this simple one resistor circuit one that's very very easy.
Right.
Because if I call the potential at point A vitæ I call the potential at point B B.
I know that V-A has to be bigger than VB because current always flows from the higher potential toward
the lower potential.
So in this case you'd simply have V.A minus VB just for shorthand let's just call that V and that there
must be equal to our equivalent multiplied by the current.
I so that would be my expression.
So now let's go back and look at the top figure.
So in this figure over here if you look at.
Now I've got a current flowing into this point this is called the junction because you have one wire
going in and this kind of two going out the potential at point A is still labeled vitæ the potential
I'd be here still labeled VB.
Since current is flowing from the left to the right you know that this side here has to be at a higher
potential in that side.
However now look what happens you have a current flowing in here.
Now part of that current is going to flow in the top resistor part of the current.
Now it's going to split and go into the bottom resistor or two.
However whatever current flows in whatever charge flows in every second has to be equal to the total
amount of charge that leaves every second.
So you have to have this current equation here because you have to have charge that's conserved.
All right so this is an important expression.
So the next thing now.
Well let's imagine we wanted to apply ohms law to this how do we actually do it.
Well for this case there's kind of two ways you can do it.
I could start at point A and I can either go to point B by going at the top or I can go through the
bottom branch.
So let's go in through the top branch.
What would it look like.
Well again you'd have V.A minus VB.
That's the potential difference that must be equal to Ohm's law.
Right.
That's ohms law.
So that must be equal to either one R1 and for simplicity or remember we called V-A mine is VB let's
just call that V.
All right.
What about now if we go through the bottom range we go to the bottom branch again it's v minus VB.
That's the same for both top and bottom.
And now what.
One now we have a different current We have Aitu going through the bottom are two that must also be
equal to V R.
Now one last step.
We're going to do now that we're going to use both of these equations.
Our top equation and the bottom one over here and we're going to use it to simplify this equation that
we had for the conservation of the current.
So let's go ahead and do that.
So what I'm going to do is I'm going to eliminate expression for I want an eye to using these equations
here in the red boxes.
So instead of writing I one let's just keep the total current flowing in to be like that instead of
writing I one I'm going to replace one with V over our one.
All right good.
Next thing instead of writing I to I'm going to replace that by vi over our two.
All right.
Now the last step I can do here.
I notice that I have a V for both terms.
We can factor that out.
We can call that one over our one plus one over our two multiplied by V.
Now it's started to look a lot like my equation down over here.
Let's give this equation here in the blue box.
It has a different form because my eye is alone.
However what if I called everything in this bracket over here.
What if I called everything in this bracket one divided by are equivalent.
What would it look like.
I would simply look like this.
It would look like one over our equivalent multiplied by V.
And now if you rearrange the equation what are you going to find.
You're going to find that V equals are equivalent multiplied by and you're going to get the exact same
equation.
So we'll bring our equivalent on the other side.
All right you get v equals 2 are equivalent times the current.
So that's an important equation actually.
So look what we have.
So our equivalent resistance.
Now you can simply write like this one over our equivalent is equal to 1 over our one plus one over
our two.
And that's the equation for the equivalent resistance.
If I have two resistors in parallel with each other kind of an important equation OK.
So this is another one you're going to have to know.